>> Kyle: So here let's make, Just (41).
We've now made ourselves
a monad called fortyOne.
Line 2, let's make a fortyTwo monad that
is the mapping from the fortyOne monad.
fortyTwo here is not the number 42,
it's a monad wrapped around the number 42.
Why?
Because .map always has to return the same
kind of data structure as it started with.
Call it .map on an array,
get an array, call it on a monad,
you're gonna get another monad.
All right,
well that's fairly straightforward.
That's a way of getting one
value changed to another.
It definitely seems like a lot of pomp and
circumstance.
[LAUGH] When we're used to just being
able to do something like plus 1,
this seems like a lot of
extra work to be going to.
And the only reason you
go to this extra work
is because these monads have this nice
clean way of working together that
is more predictable than
just regular old values.
They have these mathematical principles
that we're trying to opt into.
That's why you go to
the trouble of using a monad.
Okay, let's then talk.
Remember, we talked early in
the course of the identity function,
here we're got the identity
function again.
I just want to show you that if
you call chain with a method that
only returns a value like identity, then
you're literally gonna get the value out.
If I say fortyOne.chain(identity),
I'm literally gonna get
the value 41 out, same thing,
line 12 with the value 42.
That technically lines
10 through 12 [LAUGH]
that technically is a violation
of the monadic laws.
You're not supposed to call chain with a
map or function that won't return a monad.
And some monad implementations would
actually catch this problem and
either throw an error or
force it to be wrapped in a monad.
My very loose implementation,
and I'm only doing this here for
our debug inspection purposes.
I'm only showing you that
you can look at a monad and
see what's in it if you sort
of violate that monadic law.
But that's not what you're supposed to do.
What you're supposed to do is
once it's in a monad, just make
another monad out of it, and make another
monad out of that, and so on and so forth.
You're never really supposed to
extract it out of the monad like that.
Okay, so here we are, making monads.
We're able to convert one
monad to another using a .map.
Let's talk about .chain and
.ap calls for just a moment.
If I made a couple of monads that
were wrapped around the strings,
Kyle and Susan.
And then I had a tuple function.
And we've looked at this
earlier in the course, but
this particular version of tuple which is
curry, is going to take in two values and
return us an array with those two values.
That's what it's job is,
is to take in two individual values and
make an array with them.
By the way, what shape is that?
What shape is tuple?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle: What shape have we been talking
about over and over and
over again when we were talking about
all those transducer discussions?
What shape is tuple?
It looks like a reducer, right?
It's a thing that takes two values and
makes one value out of it.
In this case it takes
two discrete values and
makes it a two element array out of it.
Get used to thinking about every time
you see a function, ask yourself,
what kind of shape is it?
And if I know what kind of shape it is,
what kind of usage can I get out of it?
>> Kyle: Okay, so
let's look at the .ap call,
cuz remember I said the .ap is
sort of a strange little beast.
The .ap call on this line eight is being
called on the result of the .map call.
So we're gonna take user1 and
map it with tuple.
What does user1.map with tuple give us?
>> Speaker 3: It connects it [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle: Think carefully,
if I just did user1.map and
I passed in tuple what would we get back?
>> Speaker 4: Function with the x already-
>> Kyle: What is the return
value of every .map call?
>> Speaker 4: An array.
>> Kyle: No, it is the data structure
type that it was called upon.
If we called array.map we're gonna get
an array, but here we are calling what?
>> Speaker 4: Monad.
>> Kyle: We're calling monad.map.
So what are we gonna get?
>> Speaker 3: A monad
>> Kyle: We're gonna get
another monad back.
And what is that monad gonna have in it?
Well it called tuple with the single
value that was inside of user one,
which is a string file.
Tuple expects two inputs, and
it only got called with one input.
So what is going to come back to be
stuck inside of that intermediary monad?
>> Speaker 2: Curry.
>> Kyle: A single function that
is waiting for one more value.
So the monad that we have made with
the user1.map is a monad that is wrapped
around the function that is holding
the string Kyle in its closure, okay?
And then we're gonna
call .ap on that thing.
And if you look back in your slides to
the previous slide, what does .ap do?
It's gonna call user2.map with the
function that's in our temporary monad.
So we have one value coming out
of user1 into the closure, and
then we call .ap on another monad and
it provides the second value, and
what do we get back from that .ap call?
That .ap call is under
the covers a .map call.
So what are we gonna get back?
>> Speaker 3: A monad.
>> Kyle: We're gonna get a monad,
thank you.
And what is that monad gonna have in it?
>> Speaker 4: A tuple.
>> Kyle: It's gonna have the tuple,
thank you very much.
If we called users.chain(identity), our
little cheating the monadic laws thing,
you're gonna see the tuple,
Kyle and Susan.
>> Kyle: So .ap is a way for
us to take one value out of a monad,
put it into a closure, and then use
that as the mapper for the next monad.
>> Kyle: These three functions, map,
chain, or flat map, or bind, whichever one
you want to call it, and .ap, those three
functions have a specific set of ways
that they work together that fulfills
what are called the three monadic laws.
And I'm not even gonna tell you what the
three monastic laws are cuz I don't know
what they are, and
I'm not a mathematician.
But it is important that monads
behave according to those laws.
If they don't behave
according to those laws,
all the math is lost,
all the benefit of this is loss.
There's no point to it,
unless you're getting
all of that mathematical characteristic
out of these operations.
So that's why you go to the extra
trouble to wrap something
like the string Kyle in a monad.
Is that you're gonna get these higher
level mathematical principles as you start
doing bigger and bigger operations.
We're not gonna talk about those
bigger and bigger operations,
partly because I don't even fully
understand the bigger operations and
partly because that's not
the objective of this discussion.
I am not trying to make
you masters of the nomad.
The only thing I wanna show you
is that a nomad is not some
mystical thing that you
can't possibly understand.
It's just an object wrapped around the
value with some specific behaviors on it.